Welcome to Moviecaps.
Today I will show you a Comedy, Crime, Drama
film from 2015, titled Focus.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
The con man Nicky Spurgeon goes to a bar in
New York City.
There he sees a beautiful young blonde woman
with a man who seems to be pestering her.
She flees from him and goes to Nicky's table
to use him as a scapegoat.
Her name is Jess.
After a few drinks, she seduces Nicky into
going upstairs to her hotel room , and they
start making out.
Then a man storms into the room with a gun
and threatens to shoot Nicky.
Jess says that he is her husband.
Nicky then jokes that he has cancer, and Jess
figures that he's onto them.
Nicky says that the attempt was atrocious
and how they should have done it if they really
wanted to rob him before he leaves.
Curiosity gets the better of him and after
Jess leaves the hotel, he approaches her and
invites her out for coffee.
Nicky tells her a story about two partners
who were involved in a scam gone wrong, where
one partner had to shoot the other to make
it appear they were not working together.
The partners in question were Nicky's father
and grandfather, and one shot the other with
something called "Toledo Panic Button".
Jess begs Nicky to teach her.
He agrees and says that the con is a game
of focus.
Outside, Nicky explains that attention is
a spotlight and their job is to dance in the
dark.
The human brain is slow and can not multitask,
you have to get inside the victim's head and
perceive things from their perspective, he
continues as he lifts things from her.
He wishes her luck and leaves.
Nicky takes his business to New Orleans with
his friend Horst and his own team of grifters.
On a side note, Nicky has a gambling problem
as he loses money on a horse race.
Jess finds Nicky a few days later after doing
her research on him.
She asks him to let her join the team.
Nicky agrees to try her out and instantly
introduces her to Horst, he knew Jess was
coming.
It's Super Bowl week and the town is packed
with people.
Jess joins them for a practice round.
They lead her through the crowded streets
where they swipe watches, purses and other
jewelry from unsuspecting people.
Nicky is impressed and she gets to join the
team.
They also take her to a hotel casino where
they let her in on even more of their schemes,
like identity theft and credit card forgery.
They even set up fake ATMs to record the pin
codes.
Jess meets Nicky's friend and partner Farhad.
He's involved in even more complicated schemes.
Farhad basically ignores Jess' existence and
asks everything about her, even if Nicky will
be tapping that because he surely would.
Despite his behavior, Jess still takes a liking
to him.
When explaining to Jess what they are doing
with the stolen data in their base and how
they are splitting the profits percentage-wise,
she notices a necklace she likes, but Nicky
tells her that everything they steal has to
be sold, so there's no proof.
When Jess inquires to Nicky about a big con,
so big that they can retire on the spot, he
just says that they are in a bulk business
and that big scams are just a fantasy.
Nicky asks for a cash stack to bid on a race
track, while all the bags are checked and
the money is counted.
Nicky gets Jess a place to stay and when she
asks him for a lift, he tells her she'd better
get a cab.
He points out to her that there should be
no romantic relationship between them.
Some time later, he comes to her anyway and
they start getting it on.
Jess asks Nicky why some people call him "Mellow."
He says his dad used to call him that because
he told him he was soft like a marshmallow.
Nicky believes that there is no room for heart
in this game because it can get you killed.
The night before the big game, when all the
cheating is through, Nicky turns to the team
and congratulates them on a record-breaking
week that brought in $1.2 million.
He sends everyone home with the usual promise
to send them their cut.
Horst gives Nicky the bag of money and makes
Nicky promise that he will not gamble with
it.
Nicky promises as Jess looks on.
Nicky and Jess are going to a football game.
Jess mentions that she does not like football,
so Nicky makes a game of making little bets
with each other, like whether one fan will
catch a hot dog and whether another will be
too drunk to stand up for the wave.
They see a woman in short shorts and bet how
many men will look at her butt as she walks
by.
Jess bets 8 and Nicky bets 3.
A curious man named Mr. Liuyan joins the game
and bets 5.
Seven men look at the woman's butt as she
walks by, with Jess being the closest.
Liyuan suggests they place some bets on the
game.
Jess declines, since she does not know anything
about football.
Nicky accepts his suggestion and they bet
$1000, with Nicky losing.
When Nicky wants to fold, Liuyan practically
begs him to play along.
Reluctantly, Nicky agrees and raises the bet.
He loses and gives him the stack of bills.
The stakes escalate as the two get going.
After losing $100,000, Jess thrusts the bag
of cash into Nicky's arms and tells him they
have to leave.
He takes the money, slides it on the table,
and bets all of the remaining cash ($1.1 million)
on a simple high card draw.
Liuyan is thrilled, he calls and draws a 5.
Nicky is elated as the odds are in his favour,
when he turns the card over he sees a 3.
He loses everything their team has been working
on.
Jess sits down in shock and Nicky just stands
there stunned.
Nicky finally has enough and wants to leave.
Mr. Liuyan goads him again, "That's what you
get for playing with the big boys."
Nicky turns around and decides to double the
bet again.
He tells Liuyan to pick any player on the
field, and he will guess which one it is - a
seemingly impossible chance.
Mr. Liuyan thinks he's crazy and does not
bet on crazy people, so he declines.
Nicky sweetens the deal by saying Jess will
pick the player Liuyan saw, much to Jess'
dismay.
Liuyan can not turn down free money, so he
picks a player.
As Jess nervously looks through the binoculars,
Liuyan gives them a chance to back out.
Jess looks to Nicky, who seems to be begging
him to take this chance to back out, but Nicky
tells her to pick.
Jess nervously scans the players again.
Suddenly, she spots Farhad, who is wearing
a number 55 jersey.
She grins and picks him, and to everyone's,
but Nicky’s surprise, that's the right answer.
On the cab ride home, Nicky, now carrying
a lot of money, explains to Jess that this
was planned from the beginning.
He knew Liyuan was a notorious gambler, so
he set it up so Liuyan would see the number
55 throughout the day, subconsciously making
him pick that number when the moment was right.
Nicky then has the taxi pull over while another
car pulls up behind them.
He instructs the cab driver to take Jess to
the airport.
He leaves her her share of the money and drives
off without another word, leaving Jess confused
and heartbroken.
Three years later.
In Buenos Aires.
Argentina, Nicky is working with a billionaire
race car owner named Rafael Garriga and his
partner Owens.
They are in possession of a revolutionary
new fuel burn algorithm that will give them
an edge in the upcoming season.
However, Rafael is worried that this will
not be enough.
Therefore, Nicky is to pose as a disgruntled
former employee of Rafael and sell a fake
version to another team owner, McEwen, who
is his biggest competitor.
As a result, the competition gets slower while
he gets faster.
Nicky goes to a party at Rafael's mansion.
He tells the bartender to pour him water when
he asks for vodka on the rocks, since he is
an alcoholic, to give the impression that
he is getting drunk.
Nicky makes conversation with all the guests.
When he goes to confront Rafael as part of
his plan, he sees Jess coming down the stairs
in a stunning red dress and freezes.
She kisses Rafael to Nicky's disdain.
He then approaches Jess and she assures him
that she's doing fine on her own and has moved
on from the deceitful game.
Nicky looks dejected and goes to get a glass
of vodka.
He gets poured water instead, another bartender
told everyone about his problem so he does
not even get a drink.
After getting drunk on appletinis Nicky plays
his part as a disgruntled employee, but instead
of shoving Rafael, he punches him right in
the face, venting his pent-up anger at him
for being with Jess.
After Owens escorts Nicky out, he is approached
by McEwen’s guard and is given McEwen’s
credentials inviting him for lunch.
The next day, while Nicky is having lunch
with McEwen, Ricky finds it hard to concentrate
on talking to him.
He is irritated and stares at Jess, who is
flirting with Rafael.
They resolve to get back to each other later
when they have definitive proof that the fuel-burning
algorithm Nicky has is real.
He approaches Jess while she's away from Rafael
and tells her not to trust him.
She turns the tables and asks why she should
trust Nicky after he left her behind.
As she walks away, she tosses him his wallet,
hinting that her game is still on point.
Ricky strikes a deal with McEwen for 3 million
euros after data shows Nicky's fake algorithm
is credible.
Nicky spends a lot of time trying to get closer
to Jess, using nasty strategies like the old
granny who loses her handbag just to talk
to her.
Jess tells Nicky everything he wants to hear
in a flirty voice, and just before a kiss,
she whispers softly, "I have learned a lot
since we last met, and I'd love to show you,
like how I learned to play men like I just
played you."
She tells Nicky to stay away from her, she's
not falling for his bullshit again.
As a last resort, Nicky brings in Farhad to
convince Jess that she should give Nicky a
break and that he's sorry about New Orleans.
He hands her the necklace she had her eye
on 3 years ago.
Nicky manages to have another conversation
with her.
He tells her that he has not worked in a few
years because it does not feel right and that
he even turned to his father for help.
Jess gets right to the point, "What do you
want from me?"
Nicky says he's a different person, but as
much as she wants that, Jess has a hard time
believing it because he's a fraudulent man.
Jess leaves and was followed.
When Nicky returns to his hotel suite, he
sees Jess sitting next to his door.
They make love.
The next morning, he tells her he's leaving
tonight and wants Jess to come with him.
Right after that, Owens is at Nicky's door.
He tries to get rid of him, but Owen just
walks in while Jess tries to stay out of sight.
Owens complains about his feelings towards
the younger generation and Nicky's lack of
progress on the job while pacing around the
flat like he's looking for someone.
Jess escapes to the balcony where she manages
to elude Owens and he leaves after setting
down a package.
Nicky ends up selling Rafael's real algorithm
not only to McEwen but to every other race
team for the same price.
He wishes them all luck and gets the same
response, "Who needs luck with friends like
you?"
amounting to about 27 million euros in cash.
Nicky receives word that he has been found
out, but he hesitates to leave without Jess.
With time running out, he grabs his bags and
opens the door to see Jess, "Sorry I am late."
One of McEwen's guards buys unusual things
in a shop, the cashier gives him a look.
After a quick meal, he checks his watch, buckles
up, puts on his protective gear, and floors
the gas pedal, ramming into Nicky's car.
Jess and Nicky are kidnapped and taken to
one of Rafael's warehouses with duct tape
around their mouths.
He was a spy in McEwen's company to keep an
eye on Nicky.
Rafael tells Nicky that he knows he sold the
real algorithm to McEwen for 3 million, but
there is 27 million in his bags, from which
he concludes that he sold the algorithm to
everyone.
Rafael wants to know how he got the real algorithm.
He holds Jesse's nose until Nicky starts talking.
Nicky finally admits that he used Jess and
put a bug on her necklace, so when she returned
to Rafael's hotel room, the bug intercepted
his computer password.
Jess starts to cry.
Rafael laughs because he knows it's a lie
and takes the tape off her mouth.
She admits to Nicky that Rafael is not her
boyfriend - she just wanted his watch, which
is worth two hundred thousand.
She never slept with him and was not even
in his room, even though Rafael kept trying
to get into bed with her.
Jess did all this to make Nicky jealous and
to get revenge.
Nicky finally settles for telling the truth,
and just as he's about to start, he's shot
in the chest by Owens, which horrifies Garriga
and causes him to leave.
Nicky appears to be bleeding out while Jess
cries and tells him she loves him.
It looks like Nicky is going to die until
Owens says he hit Nicky in the right place
to avoid the major arteries, even though he
punctured his lung.
Owens gets the blood out of Nicky's lungs
and brings him back to life.
Owens then calls Nicky "Mellow", making Jess
realize that Owens is Nicky's father, Bucky
Spurgeon, that he was in on the scam all along
and that they just performed the "Toledo Panic
Button".
The package Owen left Nicky one morning was
the real algorithm.
Owens drives Nicky and Jess to the nearest
hospital.
He reminds Nicky of what he said regarding
putting your heart into the con game and adds
that he'll take all the money.
Jess helps Nicky walk to the entrance of the
hospital.
Nicky grins when he notices that Jess is wearing
Garriga's watch on her wrist.
The end. Thank you for watching! Subscribe if you'd like to see more videos like this.